Amazon Web Service
Aws: AWS services is amazon’s cloud web hosting platform that offers flexible, reliable, scalable, easy to use and cost effective solutions.
Cloud computing: is a term refer to storing and accessing the data over the internet
There are 3 types of cloud services:
1.	Private cloud: it is dedicated to single tenant. It is dedicated in terms of hardware and security.
2.	Public cloud: shared with multiple tenants and cost is lesser. Ex: aws, GCP (google), Oracle, Microsoft Azure, Alibaba cloud etc…
3.	Hybrid cloud: hybrid is a combination of both public and private cloud. It is the most successful cloud practice. Example: Openstack & VMware
What is the reason behind cloud? Answer: Virtualization
Virtualization will transfer hardware into software example: VMware
Private cloud:  is having dedicated to a single organization, highly secured and Greater flexibility.
Public cloud: Third party provider makes resources and services available to the customer via      
                                               Internet
Advantages: cost effective, reliability, unlimited storage, backup & recovery
Third party providers: aws, GCP (google), Oracle, Microsoft Azure etc…
 
                     3 types of services
1.	IaaS=Infra structure as a service
2.	PaaS = Platform as a service
3.	SaaS= Software as a service

  
  

Advantages of IAS:
1.	Shared infrastructure
2.	Pay as per you use model
3.	Focus on core business
4.	On demand scalability
Disadvantage of IAS:
1.	Security
2.	Maintenance & upgrade
PAS
Ex: Google app engine, salesforce, windows azure etc
Advantages of PAS:
1.	Simplified Development
2.	Lower risk
3.	Scalability
Disadvantages of PAS:
1.	Vendor locking /flexibility
2.	Integrating with rest of the applications
SAS 
Example: Google, Microsoft office 365

Advantages of SAS:
1.	Reduced time to benefit
2.	Lower costs
3.	Scalability and integration
4.	Trouble-free Upgradation
5.	Easy to use and perform proof-of-concepts
Disadvantages
1.	Insufficient Data Security
2.	Difficulty with Regulations Compliance
3.	Cumbersome Data Mobility
4.	Low Performance

